Passkey Signature Pallet Design Doc (#2000)
frequency-chain/frequency: designdocs/passkey_p256.md

  - [3. Data Flow Diagram](#3-data-flow-diagram)
  - [4. Data Map for Legal Teams](#4-data-map-for-legal-teams)
  - [5. Specification](#5-specification)
    - [Passkey Registration](#passkey-registration)
    - [Security Considerations](#security-considerations)
    - [Transaction Submission Specification](#transaction-submission-specification)
  - [6. Implementation](#6-implementation)
    - [Backend Example Code](#backend-example-code)
    - [Frontend Example Code](#frontend-example-code)
  - [7. Options for Discussion](#7-options-for-discussion)
    - [Unsigned Extensions vs MultiSignature](#unsigned-extensions-vs-multisignature)
    - [Generic Key Support](#generic-key-support)
    - [Separate Pallet](#separate-pallet)
  - [8. Conclusion](#8-conclusion)

## 1. Introduction

This document outlines the design considerations and specifications for integrating P256 Passkey support for performing transactions on Frequency chain. Passkey support aims to provide a novel non custodial solution for managing user accounts and signing transactions on-chain.

## 2. Terminology

### Accounts

- **Authorized Account**: The user account associated with the Passkey.

> - **Parent Account**: The account holding the primary private key for transaction signing.

Reviewer: What s the different from Authorized account and parent account? I think using `parent` is confusing in here since there no hierarchy like that.

Author: I renamed them to `Passkey Account` and `Frequency Account` where one is passkey and other is used for execution txs

- **Frequency Access**: The platform facilitating the management and interaction with user accounts.

### Keys

- **Passkey**: P256 key pair used for transaction signing and account management. This is the primary key used for transaction signing.
- **Passkey Public Key**: The public key derived from the Passkey private key.

> - **Seed Phrase**: A mnemonic phrase used to generate cryptographic keys, particularly for SR25519 accounts. This is used for signing passkey proving account ownership.

Reviewer: I recommend replace seed phrase with Frequency key so we would have 2 keys
1- Passkey
2- Frequency Account Key

Reviewer: We might need some abbreviation for both, to make it easier

Author: For now i will call them `Account Keys` or `Account Public Key` so its generic

- **Seed Public Key**: The public key derived from the Seed Phrase.

### Signatures

> - **Seed signature on PassKey Public Key**: A cryptographic signature generated using the Seed Phrase private key. The data being signed is public key derived from passkey. This is used to prove ownership of parent account.

Reviewer: Frequency Account key signature of PassKey public key:

having something like `freq_keypair.sign(pass_key.public_key)` would also be helpful

- PassKey signature of transaction (`passkey_tx_signature`)
- Frequency Account key signature of Passkey public key (`account_sig_passkey_pk`)
- `credentialPublicKey`: Passkey Public key (`passkey_pk`)
- `UserName`: User's website-specific username (email, etc...)
- `UserId`: User's website-specific unique ID
- `CredentialId`: The credential's credential ID for the pass key
- `Counter`: The number of times the authenticator reported it has been used.
- `credentialDeviceType`: Whether this is a single-device or multi-device credential.
- `credentialBackedUp`: Whether or not the multi-device credential has been backed up. Always false for single-device credentials.
- Transaction call

### Users Device

- Keypair for PassKey
- Keypair seed backup for Frequency Account
- All data included in the [Web Wallet backend](#web-wallet-backend) section

## 5. Specification

### Terms

These are the following technical terms and specifications for the implementation of Passkey support on Frequency chain.

- `account_keypair` : A cryptographic key pair generated from a seed phrase
- `account_pk` : Account Public Key
- `passkey_pk` : Passkey Public Key

> - `passkey_sig_pk` : Signature generated by Passkey on  `account_pk`

Reviewer 2: If these keys are signing each other, I think they need to be named in similar ways, e.g. `passkey_sig_account_pk` and `account_sig_passkey_pk`

- `account_sig_passkey_pk` : Signature generated by Account Key on `passkey_pk`

> - `passkey_tx_signature` : Signature generated by Passkey on transaction payload, this is required for transaction submission.

Reviewer 2: why the change of naming pattern? Is there some reason it should not be `passkey_sig_tx[n]`?

Reviewer: correct, we have not been consistent

      const tx = api.tx.{frequecyPassKeyProxy}.submitPasskeyTx(passkey_payload);
      await tx.send()
    ```

4. **Backend Validation and Submission**:
    - The backend can further validate the transaction payload before submitting it to the chain.
    - The backend validates the `passkey_tx_signature` and the `passkey_authenticator_data` to ensure the authenticity of the transaction.
    - For more secure operations, handling the transaction creation and submission on client side is recommended.

### Security Considerations

#### Generic

- Never store or backup the seed phrase other than memory.
- Prefer more client side data processing and handling, backend should only store the necessary data.
- Choose vetted libraries, npm packages for handling cryptographic operations, such that signing with seed phrase, or handling of private keys is done securely.

#### Front-end (client)

- If key generation is done in front-end, it should ideally being done inside an isolated section such as iframe or Web Worker.
- Generated Keypair should not get stored permanently (except for back up options) and removed as soon as it is not required.

#### Backend

> - Passkey registration response should get verified which checks the random challenge

Reviewer 2: This is the first time a random challenge is mentioned.  What is the random challenge here?

Reviewer: Added details

      - [Backend](#backend)
      - [On-chain](#on-chain)
  - [6. Implementation](#6-implementation)
    - [On-chain Implementation](#on-chain-implementation)
      - [Extrinsic verification](#extrinsic-verification)
      - [Signature verification](#signature-verification)
    - [Backend Example Code](#backend-example-code)
      - [Passkey Registration Verification](#passkey-registration-verification)
      - [Transaction Authentication Verification](#transaction-authentication-verification)
  - [7. Options for Discussion](#7-options-for-discussion)
    - [Mortality of `account_sig_passkey_pk` i.e. Account Signature on Passkey Public Key](#mortality-of-account_sig_passkey_pk-ie-account-signature-on-passkey-public-key)
      - [Pros/Cons](#proscons)
    - [Unsigned Extensions vs Extending MultiSignature](#unsigned-extensions-vs-extending-multisignature)
      - [Unsigned Extensions](#unsigned-extensions)
        - [Pros/Cons](#proscons-1)
      - [Extending MultiSignature](#extending-multisignature)
        - [Pros/Cons](#proscons-2)
    - [Generic Key Support](#generic-key-support)
    - [Separate Pallet](#separate-pallet)
  - [8. References](#8-references)

## 1. Introduction

> This document outlines the design considerations and specifications for integrating P256 Passkey support for performing transactions on the Frequency chain. Passkey support aims to provide a novel non-custodial solution for managing user accounts and signing transactions on-chain.

Reviewer 3: Are these all transactions?

## 2. Benefits

- **Non-Custodial Account Management**: Passkey support enables users to interact with the Frequency chain without actual seed access. This reduces the risk of seed exposure and enhances security.

- **Functionality**: Passkey support provides a better user experience by enabling users to sign transactions without seed access. The proliferation of Passkey-enabled services can lead to a seamless user experience.

- **Interoperability**: The use of standard cryptographic protocols (e.g., P256) ensures compatibility with other systems and services that also support these standards. This can facilitate integrations with existing wallets, security modules, and third-party applications.

> - **Backup and Recovery**: Passkey support can be used to facilitate account recovery and backup mechanisms. By signing the account Public Key, users can prove ownership of the account and recover access in case of a lost seed.

Reviewer 3: I thought passkeys are seedless?

## 3. Terminology

### Accounts

- **Passkey Account**: The user account associated with the Passkey.

> - **Frequency Account**: The account used for on-chain transactions and interactions. This account is derived from a seed phrase generated by the Web Wallet.

Reviewer 3: What is the relationship of Frequency Account to an MSA account?

- **Passkey Public Key**: The Public Key retrieved from the Passkey registration process.
- **Account Key**: The key pair generated from a seed phrase.
- **Account Public Key**: The Public Key derived from the Account Key.

### Signatures

- **Account signature on Passkey Public Key**: A cryptographic signature generated using the Account Key. The data being signed is the Passkey Public Key. This is used to prove ownership of Account Key.
- **Passkey Signatures**: A cryptographic signature generated using the Passkey private key. This is presented to Passkey enabled services as a challenge-response mechanism. Passkeys are used to generate two signatures as follows:
  - **Signature on Account Public Key**: Passkey signs a message containing the account Public Key. This signature is retained by a Web Wallet platform and/or maybe used for account recovery.
  - **Signature on Transactions**: Passkey signs the transaction payload which needs to be submitted on-chain. This signature is used to verify the authenticity of the transaction.

## 4.1. Data Flow Diagram

> - Simplified Registration Diagram

Reviewer 2: These diagram links are broken for me, even when signed into my Google account.

Reviewer 4: Odd. They worked for me when they switched, but not anymore.

@aramikm if they were in drawio this might help: https://www.drawio.com/blog/embed-diagrams-github-markdown

Reviewer: I'll take a look

> # Design Doc for P256 PassKey Support

Reviewer 4: Looks like the standard is with a lower case K. `/s/assKey/asskey/g`

Author: I will change it to `Passkey`

      - [Backend](#backend)
      - [On-chain](#on-chain)
  - [6. Implementation](#6-implementation)
    - [On-chain Implementation](#on-chain-implementation)
      - [Extrinsic verification](#extrinsic-verification)
      - [Signature verification](#signature-verification)
    - [Backend Example Code](#backend-example-code)
      - [Passkey Registration Verification](#passkey-registration-verification)
      - [Transaction Authentication Verification](#transaction-authentication-verification)
  - [7. Options for Discussion](#7-options-for-discussion)
    - [Mortality of `account_sig_passkey_pk` i.e. Account Signature on Passkey Public Key](#mortality-of-account_sig_passkey_pk-ie-account-signature-on-passkey-public-key)
      - [Pros/Cons](#proscons)
    - [Unsigned Extensions vs Extending MultiSignature](#unsigned-extensions-vs-extending-multisignature)
      - [Unsigned Extensions](#unsigned-extensions)
        - [Pros/Cons](#proscons-1)
      - [Extending MultiSignature](#extending-multisignature)
        - [Pros/Cons](#proscons-2)
    - [Generic Key Support](#generic-key-support)
    - [Separate Pallet](#separate-pallet)
  - [8. References](#8-references)

## 1. Introduction

> This document outlines the design considerations and specifications for integrating P256 Passkey support for performing transactions on Frequency chain. Passkey support aims to provide a novel non custodial solution for managing user accounts and signing transactions on-chain.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This document outlines the design considerations and specifications for integrating P256 Passkey support for performing transactions on the Frequency chain. Passkey support aims to provide a novel non-custodial solution for managing user accounts and signing transactions on-chain.
```

## 2. Benefits

> - **Non-Custodial Account Management**: Passkey support enables users to interact with Frequency chain without actual seed access. This reduces the risk of seed exposure and enhances security.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Non-Custodial Account Management**: Passkey support enables users to interact with the Frequency chain without actual seed access. This reduces the risk of seed exposure and enhances security.
```

> - **Functionality**: Passkey support provides a better user experience by enabling users to sign transactions without seed access. The poliferation of passkey enabled services can lead to a seamless user experience.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Functionality**: Passkey support provides a better user experience by enabling users to sign transactions without seed access. The proliferation of passkey-enabled services can lead to a seamless user experience.
```

- **Interoperability**: The use of standard cryptographic protocols (e.g., P256) ensures compatibility with other systems and services that also support these standards. This can facilitate integrations with existing wallets, security modules, and third-party applications.

> - **Backup and Recovery**: Passkey support can be used to facilitate account recovery and backup mechanisms. By signing the account public key, users can prove ownership of the account and recover access in case of loss of seed access.

Reviewer 5: Perhaps:

```suggestion
- **Backup and Recovery**: Passkey support can be used to facilitate account recovery and backup mechanisms. By signing the account public key, users can prove ownership of the account and recover access in case of a lost seed.
```

## 3. Terminology

### Accounts

- **PassKey Account**: The user account associated with the PassKey.

> - **Frequency Account**: The account used for on-chain transactions and interactions. This account is derived from a seed phrase generated by Frequency Access.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Frequency Account**: The account used for on-chain transactions and interactions. This account is derived from a seed phrase generated by the Web Wallet.
```

Author: Nice 👍🏽

- **Web Wallet**: The platform facilitating the management and interaction with user accounts.

### Keys

- **Passkey**: P256 key pair used for transaction signing and account management. This is the primary key used for transaction signing.
- **Passkey Public Key**: The public key retrieved from the Passkey registration process.
- **Account Key**: The key pair generated from a seed phrase.
- **Account Public Key**: The public key derived from the Account Key.

### Signatures

> - **Account signature on PassKey Public Key**: A cryptographic signature generated using the Account Key. The data being signed is passkey public key. This is used to prove ownership of Account Key.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Account signature on PassKey Public Key**: A cryptographic signature generated using the Account Key. The data being signed is the Passkey Public Key. This is used to prove ownership of Account Key.
```

## 4.2. Data maps for Legal Teams

### Web Wallet backend

- PassKey Signature of Account public key (`passkey_sig_account_pk`)
- PassKey signature of transaction (`passkey_sig_tx`)
- Frequency Account key signature of Passkey public key (`account_sig_passkey_pk`)
- Generated Account public key (`account_pk`)
- `credentialPublicKey`: Passkey Public key (`passkey_pk`)
- `UserName`: User's website-specific username (email, etc...)
- `UserId`: User's website-specific unique ID
- `CredentialId`: The credential's credential ID for the pass key
- `Counter`: The number of times the authenticator reported it has been used.
- `credentialDeviceType`: Whether this is a single-device or multi-device credential.
- `credentialBackedUp`: Whether or not the multi-device credential has been backed up. Always false for single-device credentials.

> - Transaction call

Reviewer 5: General comment: perhaps make a pass for consistency of capitalization, ie 'PassKey' vs 'Pass key' vs 'passkey', or 'Public Key' vs 'Public key' vs 'public key', etc...

Author: Good suggestion, this helps graps the confusing aspect of many key names nicely

### Users Device

- Keypair for PassKey
- Keypair seed backup for Frequency Account
- All data included in the [Web Wallet backend](#web-wallet-backend) section

## 5. Specification

### Terms

These are the following technical terms and specifications for the implementation of PassKey support on Frequency chain.

- `account_keypair` : A cryptographic key pair generated from a seed phrase
- `account_pk` : Account Public Key
- `passkey_pk` : PassKey Public Key

> - `passkey_sig_account_pk` : Signature generated by PassKey on  `account_pk`

Reviewer 4: Might be worth making it clear this one is just for the web wallet backend?
```suggestion
- `passkey_sig_account_pk` : Signature generated by PassKey on  `account_pk` for Web Wallet backend verification
```

- `account_sig_passkey_pk` : Signature generated by Account Key on `passkey_pk`
- `passkey_sig_tx` : Signature generated by PassKey on transaction payload, this is required for transaction submission.
- `passkey_authenticator_data` : Authenticator data generated by PassKey, this is required for transaction submission.
- `passkey_client_data` : Client data generated by PassKey, this is required for transaction submission.
- `nonce` : A unique number used to prevent replay attacks.

### PassKey Transaction Payload

- The transaction payload is a structure that contains the following fields:

    ```typescript

    interface PasskeyPayload {
      passkeyPublicKey: `passkey_pk`;
      passkeySignature: `passkey_sig_tx`;
      passkeyAuthenticator: `passkey_authenticator_data`;
      passkeyClientDataJson: `passkey_client_data`;
      passkeyCall: PasskeyCall;
    }

    interface PasskeyCall {
      accountId: `account_pk`;

>       accountOwnershipProof: `AccountOwnershipProof`;

Reviewer 4: Aligning with the other types without the backticks
```suggestion
      accountOwnershipProof: AccountOwnershipProof;
```

4. **Browser JavaScript generates a signature using the seed phrase**:
   - `account_keypair` is used to generate a signature on the `passkey_pk`, resulting in `account_sig_passkey_pk`.

      ```javascript
        // Generate Account Key Pair
        const mnemonic = "GENERATE SOME MNEMONIC HERE"
        const keyring = new Keyring({ type: 'sr25519' });
        const account_keypair = keyring.fromMnemonic(mnemonic);
        ...
        ...
        const account_pk = account_keypair.publicKey;

        // Generate Passkey and Sign Account Public Key
        const options = generateRegistrationOptions();
        options.challenge = account_pk;
        const registerPassKey = await SimpleWebAuthnBrowser.startRegistration(options);
        ...
        ...
        // Sign Passkey Public Key using Account Key
        const passkey_sig_account_pk = registerPassKey.signature; // obtained from the registration response
        const passkey_pk = registerPassKey.publicKey; // obtained from the registration response

        // Sign Passkey Public Key using Account Key, this is used to prove ownership of the account
        const account_sig_passkey_pk = account_keypair.sign(passkey_pk);

>       ```

Reviewer 5: Perhaps either:
(a) interpolate code block in the description of each step, ie:
1.  **User visits Wallet Setup Page**
(code block)

2. etc...
(code block)

---or---
keep the entire code block where it is, but number the comments in the block to match the descriptions above

        const tx = api.tx.balances.transfer(..., ...);

        // Prepare the passkey payload to be signed by Passkey
        const account_ownership_proof = {
          Sr25519: account_sig_passkey_pk,
        };

        let passkeyCallData = {
          accountId: account_pk,
          accountOwnershipProof: account_ownership_proof,
          call: tx,
        };

        let passkeyCall = api.registry.createType('PalletFrequencyTxPaymentPasskeyCall', passkeyCallData);
    ```

2. **Passkey Signing**:
   - The transaction payload is sent to the Passkey for signing.
   - The Passkey signs the transaction payload using its private key, producing a `passkey_sig_tx`.

    ```javascript

      // Sign the passkeyCall payload using Passkey
      const passkeyTxSignature = await SimpleWebAuthnBrowser.startAssertion({
        challenge: passkeyCall.toU8a(),
        // Additional options
      });

      // The signature generated by Passkey
      passkey_sig_tx = passkeyTxSignature.signature;
      passkey_authenticator_data = passkeyTxSignature.authenticatorData;
      passkey_client_data = passkeyTxSignature.clientData;
      //
    ```

3. **Transaction Submission**:

>    - The transaction payload, that requires, `passkey_pk`, `passkey_sig_tx`, `passkey_authenticator_data`, `passkey_client_data` is submitted to the chain.
>    - The transaction is submitted to the chain as in `unsigned` extrinsic.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   - The transaction payload (consisting of `passkey_pk`, `passkey_sig_tx`, `passkey_authenticator_data`, `passkey_client_data`) is submitted to the chain.
   - The transaction is submitted to the chain as an `unsigned` extrinsic.
```

Reviewer 5: Also, might want a "see note" here for the "submitted as an unsigned extrinsic", and link to the discussion point later on about tradeoffs between unsigned vs. signed extrinsics

Author: Good suggestion, Added a link to discussion  :+1: 
> The transaction is submitted to the chain as an `unsigned` extrinsic.

    ```javascript
      // Prepare the payload for the passkey proxy call
      let payload = {
        passkeyPublicKey: Array.from(passkey_pk),
        passkeySignature: Array.from(base64UrlToUint8Array(passkey_sig_tx)),
        passkeyAuthenticator: Array.from(base64UrlToUint8Array(passkey_authenticator_data)),
        passkeyClientDataJson: Array.from(base64UrlToUint8Array(
          passkey_client_data)),
        passkeyCall,
      };

      const passkey_payload = api.createType('PalletFrequencyTxPaymentPasskeyPayload', payload);

      // Submit the transaction to the chain without signature
      const tx = api.tx.{frequecyPassKeyProxy}.submitPasskeyTx(passkey_payload);
      await tx.send()
    ```

4. **Backend Validation and Submission**:
    - The backend can further validate the transaction payload before submitting it to the chain.
    - The backend validates the `passkey_sig_tx` and the `passkey_authenticator_data` to ensure the authenticity of the transaction.
    - For more secure operations, handling the transaction creation and submission on client side is recommended.

### Security Considerations

> #### Generic

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
#### General
```

- Generated Keypair should not get stored permanently (except for back up options) and removed as soon as it is not required.

#### Backend

- PassKey registration response should get verified which checks the random challenge. Random Challenge
for registration is generated account Public Key (`account_pk`)
- PassKey Login response should get verified which checks the random challenge
- PassKey Transaction response should get verified which checks transaction related challenge.
- Any provided Frequency account signature should get verified.

#### On-chain

- Preferably using an audited crate to support p256 operations. Currently, we are using `p256` crate
  which is not audited.
  - After investigating other libraries it looks like the only audited alternative is `Openssl` library which is only
a wrapper around the Original C implementation and unfortunately it doesn't look like it is compatible with WASM.
- If signature checks implemented **on_validate** are expensive, then this would open a vulnerability
  surface for DOS attacks.

## 6. Implementation

### On-chain Implementation

#### Extrinsic verification

> Currently, the Frequency chain primarily makes use of _SignedExtrinsic_. As we know, every signed extrinsic is validated by a list of SignedExtensions which each verify a different aspect of that extrinsic. The list of signed extensions includes:

Reviewer 6: How much do we need to explain about Polkadot/Substrate? Should there be pointers to substrate docs?

```suggestion
Currently, the Frequency chain primarily makes use of _SignedExtrinsic_. Every signed extrinsic is validated by a list of SignedExtensions which each verify a different aspect of that extrinsic. The list of signed extensions includes:
```

verify that extrinsic from different aspects. Depending on our choice to use _SignedExtrinsic_ or
an _Unsigned_ one we would need to modify or re-implement some of the following.

- **CheckNonce**: The nonce check should happen with the nonce inside the payload to avoid replay attacks.
- **ChargeFrqTransactionPayment**: The transaction fee should be applied to the owner account inside
the payload.
- **CheckP256Signature**: A new extension should be written to verify the P256 signature inside the payload.
- **Others**: We might also need to check the **Era**, **Mortality** and **Genesis hash** if we choose the

> unsigned path.

Author: Cleaner

   serde_json::Value::Object(m) => {
    let challenge = m
     .get(&"challenge".to_string());
    if let serde_json::Value::String(base64_url_encoded) = challenge {
     let decoded = base64_url::decode(&base64_url_encoded).map_err(|_| {
      TransactionValidityError::Invalid(InvalidTransaction::Custom(9))
     })?;
     Ok(decoded)
    }
   },
   _ => Err(TransactionValidityError::Invalid(InvalidTransaction::Custom(11))),
  }?;

  let encoded_payload = payload.passkey_call.encode();
  ensure!(
   encoded_payload == extracted_challenge,
   TransactionValidityError::Invalid(InvalidTransaction::Custom(12))
  );

  // prepare signing payload which is [authenticator || sha256(client_data_json)]
  let mut passkey_signature_payload = payload.passkey_authenticator.to_vec();
  passkey_signature_payload.extend_from_slice(&sha2_256(&payload.passkey_client_data_json));

  // finally verify the PassKey signature against the payload
  verify_key
   .verify(&passkey_signature_payload, &passkey_signature)
 }
```

- Some possible optimizations
  - **Compressed Public Key**: Currently passed Public Key is in **Cose** format, and it's between 70-73 bytes.

>       If the client can parse the Cose Public Key can extract the compressed encoded key. This Public Key can
>       get reduced to 33 bytes.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
If the client is capable of parsing the Cose Public Key, it can extract the compressed encoded key. This process can reduce the size of the Public Key to just 33 bytes.
```

>   - **Challenge data deduplication**: Currently the challenge data is duplicated in `expected_challenge` and
>       in it's serialized format inside `passkey_client_data_json`. If the client is able to parse
>       `passkey_client_data_json` and replace `challenge` field value with empty string. Then during the
>       signature check we can replace that empty string with `expected_challenge` and that would allow us to
>       reduce the transaction size by around **40%**. It is important that the order of the field `passkey_client_data_json`
>       does not change during this operation since that would generate a different signature.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  - **Challenge data deduplication**: Currently the challenge data is duplicated in `expected_challenge` and
      in it's serialized format inside `passkey_client_data_json`. If the client is able to parse
      `passkey_client_data_json` and replace `challenge` field value with empty string, then during the
      signature check we can replace that empty string with `expected_challenge` which would allow us to
      reduce the transaction size by around **40%**. It is important that the order of the field `passkey_client_data_json`  does not change during this operation since that would generate a different signature.
```

>   - **Challenge data deduplication**: Currently the challenge data is duplicated in `expected_challenge` and
>       in it's serialized format inside `passkey_client_data_json`. If the client is able to parse
>       `passkey_client_data_json` and replace `challenge` field value with empty string, then during the
>       signature check we can replace that empty string with `expected_challenge` which would allow us to
>       reduce the transaction size by around **40%**. It is important that the order of the field `passkey_client_data_json`  does not change during this operation since that would generate a different signature.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
  - **Challenge data deduplication**: Currently the challenge data is duplicated in `expected_challenge` and
      in it's serialized format inside `passkey_client_data_json`. If the client is able to parse
      `passkey_client_data_json` and replace the `challenge` field value with an empty string, then during the
      signature check we can replace that empty string with `expected_challenge` which would allow us to
      reduce the transaction size by around **40%**. It is important that the order of the field `passkey_client_data_json`  does not change during this operation since that would generate a different signature.
```

  - **Signing hash of payload**: Since there might be a size limit for the data that can get signed
      via passkeys, it would make sense to only sign the cryptographic hash of the payload. This would also
      reduce the challenge size to only 32 bytes if we decided not to implement the deduplication option.

### Backend Example Code

#### PassKey Registration Verification

```typescript

>     // RegistrationResponseJSON is the data that PassKey authenticator returns after registeration

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    // RegistrationResponseJSON is the data that PassKey authenticator returns after registration
```

    const verification = await verifyRegistrationResponse({
        response: body as RegistrationResponseJSON,

>         // challenge that server expects and provided for registeration

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
        // challenge that server expects and provided for registration
```

            loggedInUserId,
            credentialID,
            credentialPublicKey,
            counter,
            transportsString,
        );
    }
```

#### Transaction Authentication Verification

```typescript
    // get AuthenticatorDevice data from database by credentialId
    const dbCredential: AuthenticatorDevice | null = await credentialService.getCredentialByCredentialId(credentialId);
    const authenticator: VerifyAuthenticationResponseOpts["authenticator"] = {
        ...dbCredential,
        credentialID: credentialId,
    };
    const opts: VerifyAuthenticationResponseOpts = {
        response: body,
        expectedChallenge: currentChallenge,
        expectedOrigin: origin,
        expectedRPID: rpID,
        authenticator,
    };
     let verification: VerifiedAuthenticationResponse = await verifyAuthenticationResponse(opts);
    const { verified, authenticationInfo } = verification;

    if (verified) {
        // transaction authentication verification is successful
    }
```

## 7. Options for Discussion

### Mortality of `account_sig_passkey_pk` i.e. Account Signature on PassKey Public Key

#### Pros/Cons

> - **Pro**: Mortality of `account_sig_passkey_pk` would ensure that the account signature on the PassKey public key is only valid for a certain period, albieit it would be a complex setup.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- **Pro**: Mortality of `account_sig_passkey_pk` would ensure that the account signature on the PassKey public key is only valid for a certain period
- **Con**: Complex to set up.
```

>   >Wil wondered about a mortality as well, but I >have two fears:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
  >Wil wondered about a mortality as well, but I  have two fears:
```
